Add open source guidelines (#173)
fastruby/blog: _posts/2020-06-17-ombulabs-open-source-guidelines.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "OmbuLabs Open Source Guidelines"
date: 2020-06-17 11:16:00
categories: ["open-source", "guideline"]
author: bronzdoc
---

![goHbayOl3PPzk7yYgEEOzF8q9zqRurIwZexM1ge8.jpg](https://tettra-production.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/0d6efb4f154041e899af17bdcd19c1b5/ce8d5f452da02a88554d80c256162a35/d822b155a4112474fdb7aea5ee22465e/d28647d6b4d6e5842508679707ee21a7/goHbayOl3PPzk7yYgEEOzF8q9zqRurIwZexM1ge8.jpg)

At OmbuLabs we dedicate some of our work hours to open source every week. Also some of us contribute to open source during our spare time.

> Here are a few tips to that help us keep OSS contributions organized

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are a few tips that helps us keep our OSS contributions organized
```

<!--more-->

From now on every-time we contribute to an OSS project in working hours, we fork it to the [FastRuby.io organization](https://github.com/fastruby).

This way we can keep track of the contributions we made as a company, also the branches created in the project are accessible to the rest of the team.

As a company we get these benefits:

\- We use OSS projects and we want them to be better

> \- We want our brand to be associated with these OSS projects

Reviewer: since the title of this list is `we get these benefits`, for me reading `we want...` sounds weird, how about something like `Our brand can be associated with these OSS projects`, `Our teammates can learn more about these projects`, etc?

Author: You tagged another user lol

Author: You mean to remove all the `we want` ... ? form all the benefits?

Reviewer: oops hahaha sorry other luis xD

What I mean is changing "we want something" with "we can do something", like stating that's something we can do now and not something we want to do (sounds more like a desire). It's just me being picky though hahah.

\- We want our teammates to learn more about these projects

\- We want our contributions to be noticed

\- We want to use our contributions in the future

\- Sometimes contributions take a long time to be merged into the main OSS project. This way we make sure that we include references to our company’s organization.

\- None of our references will point to a person’s repository. They will point to one of our company’s fork.

> As an individual we get to keep the benefits too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an individual, we get these benefits:
```
or

```suggestion
As an individual, we get benefits too:
```

\- Display the user in the PR page

\- Display the contribution in the user's contribution graph

\- Display commits authored by the original user

# README

> When creating a new OSS project it is good to have a good README. The readme should include steps on how to install the project, if you want to contribute it should have steps on how to contribute to their projects and a code of conduct

Reviewer: This sentence is not clear to me. It starts saying that someone is creating an OSS project, but then it says `if you want to contribute` (maybe it's `if you want contributors`?) and then it says `how to contribute to their projects` (but wasn't it this person's new created project?).

# Sponsorship

In projects that we create and we dedicate time on it we include the following banners.

![Jb4DM1iJjQM1ExSS4SDlw5ICjCwWWGo8BSstu4L4.png](https://tettra-production.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/0d6efb4f154041e899af17bdcd19c1b5/ce8d5f452da02a88554d80c256162a35/d822b155a4112474fdb7aea5ee22465e/d28647d6b4d6e5842508679707ee21a7/Jb4DM1iJjQM1ExSS4SDlw5ICjCwWWGo8BSstu4L4.png)![UXzPMzwGmoZrz6RfXPs7MYiMA9sQPaS8pUn6xLlM.png](https://tettra-production.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/0d6efb4f154041e899af17bdcd19c1b5/ce8d5f452da02a88554d80c256162a35/d822b155a4112474fdb7aea5ee22465e/d28647d6b4d6e5842508679707ee21a7/UXzPMzwGmoZrz6RfXPs7MYiMA9sQPaS8pUn6xLlM.png)

# Code Of Conduct

> We want a welcoming, inclusive and harassment free space to contribute, thats why we decided to include the \[code covenant\](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/) in all our projects.

Reviewer: I think the link should be `code of conduct` or `contributor covenant`

---
layout: post
title: "OmbuLabs Open Source Guidelines"
date: 2020-06-17 11:16:00

> categories: ["open-source", "guideline"]

Reviewer 2: just open source should be fine, no need to create a new category 

```suggestion
categories: ["open-source"]
```

author: bronzdoc
---

> ![goHbayOl3PPzk7yYgEEOzF8q9zqRurIwZexM1ge8.jpg](https://tettra-production.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/0d6efb4f154041e899af17bdcd19c1b5/ce8d5f452da02a88554d80c256162a35/d822b155a4112474fdb7aea5ee22465e/d28647d6b4d6e5842508679707ee21a7/goHbayOl3PPzk7yYgEEOzF8q9zqRurIwZexM1ge8.jpg)

Reviewer 2: we shouldn't have that image before the `<!--more-->`, otherwise it'll display it in the index page. We usually show only the introduction of the article there. An image would take a lot of space

> At OmbuLabs we dedicate some of our work hours to open source every week. Also some of us contribute to open source during our spare time.

Reviewer 2: Since we're outside of the OmbuLabs site, let's add a link to it

> At OmbuLabs we dedicate some of our work hours to open source every week. Also some of us contribute to open source during our spare time.

Author: @FionaDL  what you think?  "we dedicate some hours to open source. " ?

> At OmbuLabs we dedicate some of our work hours to open source every week. Also some of us contribute to open source during our spare time.

Reviewer 3: @bronzdoc it would have to be "we dedicate some of our hours to open source" Maybe:
"At OmbuLabs some of our time is spent working on open source projects."

> Here are a few tips to help us keep our OSS contributions organized and encourage people to contribute

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are a few tips that help us keep our OSS contributions organized and encourage people to contribute:
```

<!--more-->

> From now on every-time we contribute to an OSS project in working hours, we fork it to the [FastRuby.io organization](https://github.com/fastruby).

Reviewer 2: Also, I think `every-time` should be `every time`, right? cc @FionaDL

Reviewer 3: yes, but I think he's not using this :)

> From now on every-time we contribute to an OSS project in working hours, we fork it to the [FastRuby.io organization](https://github.com/fastruby).

Author: I jus re read that and I don't like how it sounds. 

@FionaDL what you think of 

```
When we contribute to an OSS project as an organization/company
```
?

> From now on every-time we contribute to an OSS project in working hours, we fork it to the [FastRuby.io organization](https://github.com/fastruby).

Reviewer 3: @bronzdoc Hmmmm, maybe you don't even need to say the organization/company part since that seems implied(?) . 
Maybe...
"When we contribute to an OSS project we fork it into our FastRuby organization."

> From now on every-time we contribute to an OSS project in working hours, we fork it to the [FastRuby.io organization](https://github.com/fastruby).

Author: Much better, thank you

This way we can keep track of the contributions we made as a company, also the branches created in the project are accessible to the rest of the team.

> As a company we get these benefits:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a company we get these benefits from forking our Open Source projects to one of our organizations:
```

> \- We use OSS projects and we want them to be better

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure this belong here, is this one of the reasons we fork to FastRuby?

Author: Yes

> As a company we get these benefits from forking our Open Source projects to one of our organizations:

Reviewer 2: maybe this is easier to read?

```suggestion
These are the benefits that we get as a company from forking our Open Source projects to one of our organizations:

Author: hmm im not sure about this one, I like the first one better

Reviewer 3: What about dropping company:
These are the benefits that we get from forking our Open Source projects to one of our organizations:

\- We want our brand to be associated with these OSS projects

\- We want our teammates to learn more about these projects

\- We want our contributions to be noticed

\- We want to use our contributions in the future

\- Sometimes contributions take a long time to be merged into the main OSS project. This way we make sure that we include references to our company’s organization.

\- None of our references will point to a person’s repository. They will point to one of our company’s fork.

> As an individual we get these benefits too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an individual, we get these benefits:
```

\- Display the user in the PR page

\- Display the contribution in the user's contribution graph

> \- Display commits authored by the original user

Reviewer 2: Let's stay consistent with the way we display items. Sometimes there are dashes and sometimes dots

![Screen Shot 2020-07-16 at 1 49 09 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7442887/87699368-238b9600-c76b-11ea-8977-a5f868ceacac.png)

(https://github.com/fastruby/blog/blob/638549796ee94e0be3b325af066b0cd79b65abc1/_posts/2020-06-17-ombulabs-open-source-guidelines.markdown)

# README

> When creating a new OSS project these are some important things it should have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating a new OSS project these are some important things it should have:
```

- Description of the project
- Steps on how to setup the project
- A contributing guide
- A code of conduct

> We cannot miss this four things in every of our OS projetcs.

Reviewer: Maybe this last line is not necessary if you use `must have` on the previous line instead of `should have`.

# Steps on how to setup the project

> In this section you should describe the steps needed to get project up and running, some of the common things are:

Reviewer: I think you should use the same person always, sometimes it's `we` and sometimes `you`. I would stick to `we` since this article is about our process and `you` feels like you are referring to the reader of the article.

- External Dependencies of your project
- Any task runner command to setup external services
- Setup configuration files
- Environment variables

> 

Reviewer: Maybe we can have a comment on adding steps to run the automated tests of the project

Author: - "Command to run automated tests" ?

Reviewer: sure, something like that works! (maybe instructions? sound more general, maybe tests are not just setup with a command)

# A contributing guide
In this section we should document standards and steps to contribute to our project, some common things to include are:
- Branch naming

> - What is the main branch where feature and hotfix branches should branch of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- What is the main branch where feature and hotfix branches should branch off of
```

> - The git flow that you choosed for the project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The git flow that you chose for the project
```

Author: Don't tell July about this

Reviewer: hahahahaha I won't tell

> The git flow that we chose for the project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the git flow that we chose for the project
```

Reviewer 2: should this have a question mark?

- If we are using an issue tracker, how would we link the PR with a story or issue

# Sponsorship

> In projects that we create and we dedicate time on it we include the following banners.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In projects that we create and we dedicate time to, we include the following banners:
```

![Jb4DM1iJjQM1ExSS4SDlw5ICjCwWWGo8BSstu4L4.png](https://tettra-production.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/0d6efb4f154041e899af17bdcd19c1b5/ce8d5f452da02a88554d80c256162a35/d822b155a4112474fdb7aea5ee22465e/d28647d6b4d6e5842508679707ee21a7/Jb4DM1iJjQM1ExSS4SDlw5ICjCwWWGo8BSstu4L4.png)![UXzPMzwGmoZrz6RfXPs7MYiMA9sQPaS8pUn6xLlM.png](https://tettra-production.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/0d6efb4f154041e899af17bdcd19c1b5/ce8d5f452da02a88554d80c256162a35/d822b155a4112474fdb7aea5ee22465e/d28647d6b4d6e5842508679707ee21a7/UXzPMzwGmoZrz6RfXPs7MYiMA9sQPaS8pUn6xLlM.png)

# Code Of Conduct

> We want a welcoming, inclusive and harassment free space to contribute, thats why we decided to include the \[code of conduct\](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/) in all our projects.

Reviewer 2: typo and link broken:

```suggestion
We want a welcoming, inclusive and harassment free space to contribute, that's why we decided to include the [code of conduct](https://www.contributor-covenant.org/) in all our projects.
```

# Licence

We choose the MIT license for our projects becuase is open source friendly and bussiness friendly.

> It allows us to use our code for comercial purposes but is also very permessive so other people can also take advantage of what we build.

Reviewer 2: typos:

```suggestion
It allows us to use our code for comercial purposes but it's also very permissive so other people can also take advantage of what we build.
```
